All right, we're now going to take a look at the builder design pattern in our shop, and specifically
we're going to take a look at the construction of domain specific languages.
Now, the language we're going to implement is very simple.
We're going to take a small subset of HTML, which, as I'm sure you know, is the language of the Web,
and we're going to output this using the F sharp code.
So essentially, what we want to model is we want to model something like the following.
We want to model a paragraph that contains some text and it also contains an image so an image can have
a source of some kind of PMG from some website.
And this is how you would represent a very small chunk of HDMI.
And we want to express it in F sharp.
Now, the way we're going to do this is we're going to leverage the idea of lists because of functional
lists in F sharp, have a very succinct way of creation.
So the creation of those lists is really neat.
So we're going to write something like the following.
We're going to have let's have a main method, a bunch of arguments.
So I'm going to create the chunk of our equals and there's going to be a paragraph and the paragraph
is going to contain the following.
So it's going to contain some text, maybe check out this picture and it's also going to contain that
image.
So here I use IMG and I'm going to say this is going to be an image called, let's say, Pokémon, dot
com slash, Pikachu dot pantin, for example.
So we want to be able, first of all, to have this as a valid chunk of code.
And then we want it to render to a Web page or a chunk of a Web page.
So how do we implement this?
Well, this is actually all compiled code.
The reason why it's compatible is because essentially what's happening here is we're calling a function
P with an argument, and that argument is a list.
And and here similarly, we're calling a function called HMG where the argument is just a string.
So let's take a look at how we can implement both P as well as IMG.
So let's first of all, implement P, P args so a paragraph can have any number of elements.
As you can see here, it has two elements.
Here is element number one and here is element number two.
So they are separated by line breaks.
So this paragraph has two elements.
So we want to take all the arguments and we want to join them using Lindberg's, first of all.
So I'll say let's all args equals.
So we'll take the arguments and then we'll use string dot concat.
So we'll concatenate every single one of those strings with a line break in between every single one
of them.
So now we have separate strings.
And of course what we need to do is we need to take a paragraph and we need to wrap the paragraph tags
around all of these arguments.
So here will make a list where inside the list will have the opening paragraph tag, which is P, then
will have all the arguments and then we'll have the closing tag.
Let's be like this.
So we have all of this and we can once again use the concatenation function string concat, just concatenate
concatenating the whole thing with a line break once again.
So this is how you build up a paragraph.
Now let's do the image part.
So let IMG Eurail.
So it takes an argument, which is the address of the image.
And here we simply render the string.
So we have IMG as our C equals backslash.
Then the URL, then the closing backslash and then slash.
And the closing of the tag.
So this is how you get IMG to work.
And now that we have this whole thing, we can actually output this to the terminal, for example.
So here I can say printf n so I can just output the string and I can take all of this HDMI and just
output it as a string and let's return to zero the end of the program.
So this is what we have and let's actually run this to take a look at what's what's going on.
So let's let's run this let's see what we get here.
All right, so funnily enough, we get absolutely nothing.
There is absolutely nothing in the output, which is rather depressing, and that's because we forgot
to mark the thing as an entry point.
So entry point.
And let's try this once again.
Maybe it will work the second time around and.
Well.
Here we go.
So here is a paragraph and inside this paragraph, you get a check out of the picture, IMG, blah,
blah, blah, and here is the closing paragraph tag.
So this is a demonstration of how you can use lists as well as functions to have a sort of domain specific
language implementation of some language or another inside F sharp.